## Table of contents

#### [Assestment Instructions](#instructions)

#### [Scripts and run instructions](#scriptsAndRunInstructions)

#### [Developer notes, comments and further work](#developerComments)

<a name="instructions"></a>

## Instructions and requirements

Hi! & We hope you are well. Thank you for being so interested in working with us.
Expectations
• You'll be working on the full stack if you join our team. As such, we'll evaluate your potential in
both front- and back-end development.
• You can use whatever languages or frameworks you feel more comfortable with.
• This test aims to understand your skills and strengths regarding:
• Familiarity and usage of languages and frameworks chosen
• Project structure and architecture
• Code readability and scalability
• Separation of concerns
• Quality and speed of the app
• Usability, UI/UX
• Attention to detail
Deadline
Please remember that you have 24 hours to complete the test.

### Requirements

- Construct a page allowing users to search for names, displaying a list of matching
individuals. Take inspiration from the torre.ai search.
- Additionally, please implement one or both of the following features:
• Display a list showcasing up to 10 of the most recent search queries.
• Provide an option for users to save or favorite individuals and ensure this list is easily
accessible.
- Upon clicking a search result, users should be directed to their genome. This can be either
directly on torre.ai or through your own implementation. Your choice!

### Resources

You can access these endpoints:

    POST https://torre.ai/api/entities/_searchstream
    WEB https://arda.torre.co/webjars/swagger-ui/index.html
    (searches for people and organizations using streams)

    WEB https://search.torre.co/webjars/swagger-ui/index.html
    (more search-reLated endpoints)

    GET https://torre.bio/api/bios/$username
    (retrieves the genome information of username)

If you need examples of how they work, you can check the page network requests in your
browser when retrieving or modifying information on torre.al.

### Deliverables

Please provide links to:

• The live, production-ready environment where we can test your implementation.

• A version control system that will allow us to review your incremental progress.

• Additionally, write a paragraph addressing the question:
If you had more time, what additional improvements would you have considered?

<a name="scriptsAndRunInstructions"></a>

## Scripts and run instructions

### Prerequisites

Installl NodeJs version 16.x or higher

### Frontend

Open the serachIndex.html file in your browser, make sure JS is enabled.

### Backend

To install the project's BackEnd please open your terminal inside the backend folder and run the following commands:

    npm install
    
    npm run build
    
    npm run seed - to create the database
    
    npm run start - make sure to run the build and seed commands before starting the project

To test all the enpoints you can use the torreTechicalTest.postman_collection.json file with postman.

<a name="developerComments"></a>

## Developer notes, comments and further work

First I started with the database design, I chose sqlite3 since it does not require installing or mounting servers and can be used from a file which can be generated by a script. After that I started developing the backend with the app, controllers and services files.

For the front end I decided to use Jquery and Bootstrap to speed up work.

For further work in the backend I would add unit tests with a test coverage of 80%, and clean the code.

For further work in the front end  if I had more experience using React I would use it and also use the [Next UI component library](https://nextui.org/docs/guide/installation) to improve the user experience and web design, and also I would add the tests with jest and react-testing-library.
